Recruitment
===========

A ``recruiter`` is a program that takes charge of recruiting participants for
an experiment. Dallinger's main recruiter for deployed experiments uses
`Amazon Mechanical Turk <https://www.mturk.com>`__, a "crowdsourcing
marketplace" for automating the process of signing up experiment
participants, obtaining their consent, arranging them in groups to perform
the experiment, communicating with them, and paying them for their
participation.

A concept directly related to MTurk recruitment is ``qualifications``. A
qualification is a participant attribute, like location or approval rate,
that you can use to decide if a particular participant should be included or
excluded from an experiment. As we will see below, Dallinger uses
qualifications to configure an experiment for participant recruitment.

Recruitment Planning
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An experimenter needs to consider recruitment from the initial stages of
planning an experiment. How many participants are needed? Do they need to
interact with each other? Is the interaction synchronous or asynchronous?
What happens when we over-recruit participants? Dallinger allows a good
deal of flexibility to tweak participant recruitment, but it needs to be
well planned in advance.

The experimenter also has to take into account the time and effort
required of participants to participate in research. If signing up the
correct number of participants requires some of them to wait for a long
time, for instance, they might not stay around to finish, or may do so one
time, then opt out of any further experiments by the same experimenter.

Configuration Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For a specific experiment, the experimenter will want a given number of
participants that can be trusted as much as possible to follow the
instructions and complete the experiment. Dallinger's MTurk recruiter
supports various configuration parameters to let the experimenter achieve
this.

One of the key configuration parameters related to recruitment is the
``auto_recruit`` parameter. Recruitment will not start automatically
unless this is set to ``true``. There are many other recruitment parameters,
though.

For example, the following configuration is defined by `GridUniverse
<https://github.com/Dallinger/Griduniverse>`__, a
parameterized space of games for the study of human social behavior::

    [HIT Configuration]
    title = Griduniverse
    description = Play a game
    keywords = Psychology, game, play
    base_payment = 1.00
    lifetime = 24
    duration = 0.1
    us_only = true
    approve_requirement = 95
    group_name = Griduniverse

The ``title``, ``description``, and ``keywords`` are important, because this
is what a potential participant will see when deciding whether to
participate in an experiment or not.

``base_payment`` is how much a participant will be paid for their
participation. This depends more on the experimenter's organization and
policies than on the experiment itself, although an exceptionally hard to
complete experiment might benefit from a higher payment figure.

``lifetime`` is how many hours to keep the experiment "open" for MTurk users.
An experiment with many participants that are recruited sequentially or
are not required to interact with each other, might benefit from a larger
window.
 
Once a participant is looking at your experiment sign on page, the
``duration`` parameter controls how long it will wait for participation
confirmation before timing out. This prevents undecided or forgetful users
from causing recruitment problems.

Dallinger is being developed in the US, and for the time being most users
are located there. Many experiments can be run without taking into account
the participant's nationality, but in some cases, experimenters may need to
restrict participation to US-only participants, The ``us_only`` parameter
allows this.

A remote experiment obviously would benefit from having very trustworthy
participants, so that experimenters can be reasonably sure that the
experiment will be completed and the instructions are followed to the best
of the participant's ability. MTurk keeps track of how many experiments a
participant has been in, and what percentage of those are approved by the
experimenter. The ``approve_requirement`` parameter takes a number from 1 to
100, representing the percentage of approved experiments that a participant
must have to be able to participate in the experiment.

The ``group_name`` parameter is used to assign a named qualification to
participants that complete an experiment. You can use this later to find out
if a possible participant has already completed the experiment under the
same group name. Note that it's not enough to set this parameter to have the
qualification saved. It's necessary to also set the ``assign_qualifications``
parameter to ``true`` as well.

Finally, the ``qualification_blacklist`` parameter can be used to filter out
potential participants and prevent them from even viewing the experiment
sign-on page. It takes a comma-separated list of qualification names to
avoid. In order to prevent participant from repeating an experiment or group,
you can set this parameter to an experiment ID or group name, and set
``assign_qualifications`` to ``true``.

Waiting Rooms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One other thing that affects recruitment is the use of a :doc:`waiting room
<waiting_rooms>`. Waiting rooms are used when an experiment requires
participants to be synchronized. Participants are kept in the "room" until
enough of them have signed up and are ready to start. Experimenters can set
the ``quorum`` in the experiment code.

Recruitment Handling in Experiment Code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In addition to the previously mentioned configuration parameters, Dallinger
experiment creators can use their experiment code to further affect
recruitment. There are a number of basic recruitment attributes that can be
set on experiment initialization, and recruitment can be further affected by
calling specific methods during experiment runtime.

There are specific points in an experiment code where recruitment is usually
affected. To show how you can set up recruitment for your experiment, we
will use GridUniverse code as a guide. The methods discussed here are part
of the experiment base class, so it is not required to implement them in
your experiment, but most experiments need at least the ``configure`` and
``create_network`` methods.

::

    def configure(self):
        super(Griduniverse, self).configure()
        self.num_participants = config.get('max_participants', 3)
        self.quorum = self.num_participants
        self.initial_recruitment_size = config.get('num_recruits',
                                                   self.num_participants)

The ``configure`` method is called during experiment initialization, and is
where experiment specific configuration takes place. Many times,
configuration parameters from the experiment `config.txt` file are used
here.

GridUniverse defines ``max_participants`` and ``num_recruits`` parameters.
They are used in this method to set ``experiment.num_participants``,
``experiment.quorum`` and ``experiment.initial_recruitment_size``. The first
of these is only used in GridUniverse code, so we can ignore it.

In its ``configure`` method, GridUniverse sets ``experiment_quorum`` to be
the same as the configured number of participants. This means that the
participants will be held in the waiting room until all participants have
been recruited. Other experiment designs might not need all of the
participants to be ready at the same time, but only a fraction of them. This
attribute only applies to experiments that use a waiting room. The default
value for ``experiment.quorum`` is zero (no waiting room).

``experiment.initial_recruitment_size`` is the number of participants
required at the beginning of the experiment. This is used during the
experiment's launch phase to start the recruitment process.

::

    def create_network(self):
        """Create a new network by reading the configuration file."""
        class_ = getattr(
            dallinger.networks,
            self.network_factory
        )
        return class_(max_size=self.num_participants + 1)

The ``create_network`` method is where the experiment :doc:`network
<networks>` is created, usually setting the initial number of users to
the number defined in ``experiment.initial_recruitment_size``. Most
experiments will have a specific network defined in their code, and call
that network explicitly. In the case of GridUniverse, the experiment allows
the use of any network defined by Dallinger, which is passed in as a
configuration parameter. Regardless of the selected network class, it's
called with ``max_size`` set to the number of participants configured, plus
one.

A simpler experiment might use something like this instead:

::

    def create_network(self):
        return Chain(max_size=self.initial_recruitment_size)

Over-recruitment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Itâ€™s common for recruited participants to join and leave an experiment
before it starts. This is difficult in experiments where multiple
participants are needed in order to start the experiment. To prevent this
from disrupting an experiment, experimenters can over-recruit participants
to ensure that they have the correct amount of participants at the start of
the experiment. The participants who are over-recruited, but not needed for
the experiment, still receive a base payout and are sent to the end of the
experiment.

Over-recruitment occurs when an experiment has a ``quorum`` other than zero
and the number of participants in the waiting room is larger than the
quorum. As mentioned above, because users in the waiting room have already
been recruited, Dallinger has to treat them as having completed the
experiment, and they have to be paid.

There are a couple of strategies that can be used to limit over-recruitment.
It is best for an experiment to close recruitment as soon as possible after
the intended quorum is full. GridUinverse overrides the experiment's
``create_node`` method to do this.

::

    def create_node(self, participant, network):
        try:
            return dallinger.models.Node(
                network=network, participant=participant
            )
        finally:
            if not self.networks(full=False):
                # If there are no spaces left in our networks we can close
                # recruitment, to alleviate problems of over-recruitment
                self.recruiter().close_recruitment()

This method is called when a participant is added, so GridUniverse uses it
to try to detect as soon as possible if the experiment networks are full
(all participants are in). It does this by getting all networks that are
not full. If there are none, it calls its recruiter's ``close_recruitment``
method.

GridUniverse also overrides the experiment's ``recruit`` method to
unconditionally close recruitment if it is called. This method is called
whenever a participant successfully completes an experiment. Since
GridUniverse uses a quorum and never requires adding new participants after
experiment start, it's safe to just go ahead and close recruitment here.

::

    def recruit(self):
        self.recruiter().close_recruitment()
