There was much outcry during the late years of the war about the low standard of the recruits from India.

The older officers, British and Indian alike, complained bitterly that the new men were all of low caste---the off-scourings of the Punjab bazaars; that they were too young or too old, and were for the most part badly developed physically, as well as in mind and character.

But the greatest trouble was that they could not be got rid of. At last in an Artillery Brigade above Bagdad, in the summer of 1918, a determined effort was made to dispose of some of the worst. The majors commanding the batteries held a committee with the doctor on ways and means, and arranged a parade of the unfit for the Doctor to get rid of. But it was very difficult. A case of ophthalmia turned out to be self-inflicted in the hope of a holiday. A mental deficient became quite normal under the stimulus of physical friction---and at last one man only was left. He was stone deaf. It was admitted that he was a good man compared to the others, but he could hear nothing. And this caused a great loss of valuable vocal tissue to the Sergeant Major, and certain other grave risks to discipline and efficiency. So he was despatched. As men with all their faculties became so easily lost on the L. of C., extra precautions were taken. The moochi was labelled and seen on board the train to Bagdad by an English N.C.O., and the depot was informed of his despatch. But it was of no avail. Unluckily his own unit had been mentioned on the reverse of the label, and in one month he was returned, weary, but relieved to be back. But neither his Major nor his Adjutant would admit defeat, and again he was despatched with double labels and telegrams, but no mention of his own unit, and he was duly struck off the strength. Another month later the Adjutant, standing outside his tent, saw a figure come capering over the sky-line with a tail of Indians gesticulating round him. With a great disregard of discipline, he rushed up to the Adjutant, laughing with joy and crying: "Speak, speak; I hear". It was the moochi back again. At Bagdad they had syringed his ears.
