The match between Middlesex and Kent was continued at Lord's yesterday before another large crowd. The revival of interest in county cricket is undoubtedly the leading feature of this summer's sport; it is most encouraging to old lovers of the game and to those who, like the writer, believe that cricket is the greatest of the national games and is something of an index of the national greatness. Mr Bickmore and Hardinge continued the Kent innings to the bowling of Durston, from the pavilion end, and Hearne. They both began quietly, Mr Bickmore alone showing lack of restraint in feeling at some of Durston's short ones on the off. He will become a great batsman if he can overcome the desire to score off good balls before he is set. The wicket was by no means perfect after the rain the day before, and after adding 20 runs in as many minutes, Mr Bickmore was stumped in 'having a go' at Hearne. Seymour soon left, well taken low down in the slips with the left hand by Mr Kidd---a beautiful catch. Woolley came in and seemed set at once. He played every ball with equal ease and confidence and seemed able to score off any ball. Hardinge, who had been batting really well, was caught at cover in attempting a second four off Lee who had replaced Durston. 3 for 49. Mr Hedges then joined Woolley and some of the most beautiful batting seen at Lord's this year followed. There was hardly a rash stroke and yet the ball traveled to the boundary in all directions with almost monotonous regularity. Owing to the curtailed play on Saturday, Col. Troughton was probably right in declaring at the tea interval with the score at 360 for 3. Woolley's 182 not out was one of the greatest innings he has ever played. Though the pitch was never easy and the bowling never really loose, he batted without fault or apparent doubt. Mr Hedges also played a beautiful innings, though not so faultless. Middlesex had a bad time after tea, before rain again stopped play, losing four good wickets for 75. During the day 18,500 people paid for admission.
