docs/Wallace-with-Anaconda.md, before:

If you are interested in developing Wallace but already use [Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/downloads), you'll need to slightly adapt the standard instructions for Wallace.

## Install Wallace

You'll follow all of the [Wallace development installation instructions](Developing-Wallace-(setup-guide).md), **with the exception of the virtual environment step**.

## Confirm Wallace works

Now, we need to make sure that Wallace and Anaconda play nice with one another. At this point, we'd check to make sure that Wallace is properly installed by typing

```
wallace --version
```

into the command line. For those of us with Anaconda, we'll get a long error message. Don't panic! Add the following to your `.bash_profile`:

```
export DYLD_FALLBACK_LIBRARY_PATH=$HOME/anaconda/lib/:$DYLD_FALLBACK_LIBRARY_PATH
```

If you installed anaconda using `Python 3`, you will need to change  `anaconda` in that path to `anaconda3`. 

After you `source` your `.bash_profile`, you can check your Wallace version (using the same command that we used earlier), which should return the Wallace version that you've installed.

## Re-link Open SSL

Finally, you'll need to re-link `openssl`. Run the following:

```
brew install --upgrade openssl
brew unlink openssl && brew link openssl --force
```

Commit message:

improving anaconda instructions to accord with whats needed to get the bindings right

docs/Wallace-with-Anaconda.md, after:

If you are interested in Wallace and use [Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/downloads), you'll need to adapt the standard instructions slightly.

## Install psycopg2

In order to get the correct bindings, you need to install `psycopg2` before you use `requirements.txt`; otherwise, everything will fail and you will be endlessly frustrated.

```
conda install psycopg2
```

## Install Wallace

You'll follow all of the [Wallace development installation instructions](Developing-Wallace-(setup-guide).md), **with the exception of the virtual environment step**. Then return here.

## Confirm Wallace works

Now, we need to make sure that Wallace and Anaconda play nice with one another. At this point, we'd check to make sure that Wallace is properly installed by typing

```
wallace --version
```

into the command line. For those of us with Anaconda, we'll get a long error message. Don't panic! Add the following to your `.bash_profile`:

```
export DYLD_FALLBACK_LIBRARY_PATH=$HOME/anaconda/lib/:$DYLD_FALLBACK_LIBRARY_PATH
```

If you installed anaconda using `Python 3`, you will need to change  `anaconda` in that path to `anaconda3`. 

After you `source` your `.bash_profile`, you can check your Wallace version (using the same command that we used earlier), which should return the Wallace version that you've installed.

## Re-link Open SSL

Finally, you'll need to re-link `openssl`. Run the following:

```
brew install --upgrade openssl
brew unlink openssl && brew link openssl --force
```
